.TH CMPH "1" "August 2025" "cmph 2.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cmph \- minimum perfect hashing tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cmph
[\-vhVgrR] [\-k nkeys] [\-f hash_function] [\-g [\-c value][\-s seed] ] [\-a algorithm]
.br
[\-M memory_in_MB] [\-b BRZ_parameter] [\-d tmp_dir] [\-m file.mph] [\-o c_file]
.br
[\-p c_func_prefix] keysfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Command line tool to generate and query minimal perfect hash functions.
.PP
Please refer to http://cmph.sf.net for full documentation.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print an help message
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
This value determines: the number of vertices in the graph for the algorithms
.br
BMZ and CHM.
.br
The number of bits per key required in the FCH algorithm.
.br
The load factor in the CHD_PH algorithm.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Algorithm. Valid values are:
.br
chm (default), bmz, bmz8, brz, fch, bdz, bdz_ph, chd, chd_ph
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
hash function (may be used multiple times).
.br
Valid values are: jenkins (default), wyhash, djb2, fnv, sdbm, crc32
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Print version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Increase verbosity (may be used multiple times)
.TP
\fB\-k\fR
Number of keys
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Generate a .mph file
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Generate a C file
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
create an ordering table for the key indices
.TP
\fB\-R\fR
create an ordered keyfile
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Random seed
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Minimum perfect hash function .mph file
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Name of C file. default: stdout (Only for -C)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Name of C functions prefix. default: cmph_c_ (Only for -C)
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
Main memory availability (in MB)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Temporary directory used in BRZ algorithm
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Parameter of BRZ algorithm to make the maximal number of keys in a bucket
lower than 256.
.br
For BDZ it is used to determine the size of some precomputed rank
information and its value should be an integer in the range [3,10].
Default is 7. The larger is this value, the more compact are the
resulting functions and the slower are them at evaluation time.
.br
For CHD and CHD_PH it is used to set the average number of keys per bucket
and its value should be an integer in the range [1,32]. Default is 4. The
larger is this value, the slower is the construction of the functions.
This parameter has no effect for other algorithms.
.TP
\fBkeysfile\fR
Line separated file with keys
.SH EXAMPLE
$ # Using the default algorithm (chm) for constructing a mphf
.br
$ # for keys in file keys_file. Lines in keys_file _must_ be unique.
.br
$ ./cmph \-v \-g keys_file
.br
$ # Query id of keys in the file keys_query
.br
$ cmph \-v \-m keys_file.mph keys_query
.PP
# Compile to a C file. CHM is ordered already
.br
$ cmph \-C -a chm -f jenkins keys_file > keys_file.c
.br
$ cc -O2 -Wall -Wextra keys_file.c -o keys_file.o
.PP
# For BMZ we need to add a ordering table
.br
$ cmph \-Cr -a bmz -f wyhash keys_file > keys_file.c
.br
# a wyhash.h is in src
.br
$ cc -O2 -Wall -Wextra -Isrc keys_file.c tests/cmph_compile-run.c -o keys_file_bmz
.br
$ ./keys_file_bmz bmz keys_file nkeys
.PP
# Reorder the keyfile
.br
$ cmph \-CO -a bmz keys_file > keys_file.c
.br
# Created keys_file_bmz.ord
.br
$ cc -O2 -Wall -Wextra -Isrc keys_file.c tests/cmph_compile-run.c -o keys_file_bmz
.br
$ ./keys_file_bmz bmz keys_file_bmz.ord nkeys
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Enrico Tassi <gareuselesinge@users.sourceforge.net>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).

